feelsbot-knit-pattern.md, before:

# Feelsbot Felted Plushy Pattern
## by Brenna Flood (@brennx0r)
-------------------------------

## Materials Needed
One hank each of the following Cascade 220 colors:

* DRK: dark heathered green
* TEA:   heathered teal
* YEL:   yellow
* PUR: purple

Or Plymouth Yarn Galway Worsted:

* TEA: 131 Aegean Sea
* YEL: 179 Gold

1 set straight or circular knitting needles, US8

1 set double-pointed (dpn) needles, US8

tapestry needle for ends weaving

plush toy stuffing of your choice (4 oz?)

## Head - Front

The front of the head is knitted flat using 3 different colors.

I have used both Fair Isle and Intarsia techniques for this, and
both have their pros/cons. 

If you've never done multi-colored knitting before, these videos
are great references:

Fair Isle: http://www.knittinghelp.com/video/play/fair-isle-color-knitting

Intarsia:  http://www.knittinghelp.com/video/play/intarsia-color-knitting

Pick the method that works the best for you. <3

__row 1:__ CO 16 using DRK

__row 2:__ K1 DRK, K14 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 3:__ P1 DRK, P14 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 4:__ K1 DRK, K14 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 5:__ P1 DRK, P4 PUR, P6 YEL, P4 PUR, P1 DRK   

__row 6:__ K1 DRK, K4 PUR, K6 YEL, K4 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 7:__ P1 DRK, P4 PUR, P6 YEL, P4 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 8:__ K1 DRK, K2 PUR, K2 YEL, K6 PUR, K2 YEL, K2 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 9:__ P1 DRK, P2 PUR, P2 YEL, P6 PUR, P2 YEL, P2 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 10:__ K1 DRK, K2 PUR, K2 YEL, K6 PUR, K2 YEL, K2 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 11:__ P1 DRK, P14 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 12:__ K1 DRK, K14 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 13:__ P1 DRK, P2 PUR, P4 YEL, P2 PUR, P4 YEL, P2 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 14:__ K1 DRK, K2 PUR, K4 YEL, K2 PUR, K4 YEL, K2 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 15:__ P1 DRK, P2 PUR, P4 YEL, P2 PUR, P4 YEL, P2 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 16:__ K1 DRK, K2 PUR, K4 YEL, K2 PUR, K4 YEL, K2 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 17:__ P1 DRK, P2 PUR, P4 YEL, P2 PUR, P4 YEL, P2 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 18:__ K1 DRK, K2 PUR, K4 YEL, K2 PUR, K4 YEL, K2 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 19:__ P1 DRK, P14 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 20:__ K1 DRK, K14 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 21:__ P16 DRK

__row 22:__ cast off!


## Head - Sides

For this, we'll use the heathered teal color (TEA) only.

We'll need two finished pieces of the below:

__row 1:__ CO 12

__row 2 - 12:__ K12

__row 13:__ SSK, K8, K2TOG

__row 14:__ K10

__row 15:__ SSK, K6, K2TOG

__row 16:__ K8

__row 17:__ SSK, K4, K2TOG

__row 18:__ K6

__row 19:__ SSK, K2, K2TOG

__row 20:__ K4

__row 21:__ cast off!



## Head - Back

For this, we'll use the heathered teal color (TEA) only.

__row 1:__ CO 16

__row 2 - 31:__ K till end of row

__row 32:__ cast off!


## Neck

For this, we'll use the heathered dark green color (DRK) only.

We'll need one finished piece of the following:

__row 1:__ Using the dpn needles, CO 9

__rows 2 - 6:__ K in the round

__row 7:__ cast off!


## Arms

For this, we'll use the heathered dark green color (DRK) only.

We'll need two finished pieces of the following:

__row 1:__ Using the dpn needles, CO 9

__rows 2 - 22:__ K in the round

__row 23:__ cast off!


## Hands

For this, we'll use the heathered teal color (TEA) only.

We'll need two finished pieces of the following:

__row 1:__ Using the dpn needles, CO 9

__rows 2 - 13:__ K in the round

__row 14:__ cast off!



## Body - Front

__row 1:__ CO 18 using TEA

__rows 2 - 12:__ Work as stockinette stitch (K for whole row, then P for whole row, etc.)

__row 13:__ K8 TEA, K2 YEL, K8 TEA

__row 14:__ P8 TEA, P2 YEL, P8 TEA

__row 15:__ K8 TEA, K2 YEL, K8 TEA

__row 16:__ K6 TEA, K6 YEL, K6 TEA

__row 17:__ P6 TEA, P6 YEL, P6 TEA

__row 18:__ K6 TEA, K6 YEL, K6 TEA

__row 19:__ K4 TEA, K8 YEL, K4 TEA

__row 20:__ P4 TEA, P8 YEL, P4 TEA

__row 21:__ K4 TEA, K8 YEL, K4 TEA

__row 22:__ P4 TEA, P8 YEL, P4 TEA

__row 23:__ K4 TEA, K8 YEL, K4 TEA

__row 24:__ P4 TEA, P8 YEL, P4 TEA

__row 25:__ K6 TEA, K2 YEL, K2 TEA, K2 YEL, K6 TEA

__row 26:__ P6 TEA, P2 TEA, P2 TEA, P2 YEL, P6 TEA

__row 27:__ K6 TEA, K2 YEL, K2 TEA, K2 YEL, K6 TEA

__row 28:__ P18 TEA

__row 29:__ K18 TEA

__row 30:__ P18 TEA

__row 31:__ K18 TEA

__row 32:__ P18 TEA

__row 33:__ cast off!



## Body - Back

For this, we'll use the heathered teal color only.

We'll need two finished pieces of the following:

__row 1:__ CO 18

__row 2 - 32:__ Work up as stockenette.

__row 33:__ cast off!


## Legs

For this, we'll use the heathered dark green color only.

We'll need two finished pieces of the following:

__row 1:__ Using the dpn needles, CO 9

__rows 2 - 22:__ K in the round

__row 23:__ cast off!

## Feet - Tops and Bottoms

For this, we'll use the heathered teal color only.

We'll need four finished pieces of the following:

__row :__ CO 10

__rows 2 - 16 :__ Work up as stockinette.

__row 17:__ cast off!


## Feet - Sides

For this, we'll use the heathered dark green color only.

We'll need two finished pieces of the following:

__row 1:__ CO 32

__rows 2 - 6:__ Work up as stockinette.

__row 7:__ cast off!




## General Assembly

Once all the pieces have been knit, you'll want to do the following steps. Unless otherwise indicated, please assume all sewing will use the mattress stitch technique. Video instructions on mattress stitching may be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nJ7KEGUTlJM

1. Using a tapestry needle, weave all loose ends into the work.
1. Felt all of the pieces using a washing machine, suds, and HOT water.
1. Assemble the head via whip-stitching:
   1. Sew the "back-side" pieces to the sides of the face of Feelsbot.
   1. Sew the "back-back" piece to the forehead and "back-sides" of the Feelsbot.
   1. Stuff the head with stuffing.
   1. Sew the remaining flap of the "back-back" piece and the feelsbot chin.
1. Sew the neck to the head.
1. Stuff the neck with stuffing - set aside for now.
1. Assemble the hands:
   1. Sew one end of one of the hands.
   1. Stuff the hand with stuffing, then sew the other end of the hand.
   1. Using a tapestry needle, sew through one end of the hand tube created.
   1. Using the hand sewing gathering technique (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o256Ppwf55Q), sew through the center of the tube and pull taut so that the hand curvature is created for the claw.
   1. Repeat the above for the second claw!
 1. Now, onto the arms assembly:
   1. Sew one end of one of the arms.
   1. Stuff the arm with stuffing until desired shape is achieved.
   1. Sew the open end of the arm to a hand that you have just created in the above steps
   1. Repeat the above arm assembly steps for the other arm you need to create.
 1. Next, we'll work on the body:
   1. With the front of the body front piece facing the body back piece, sew three sides of the pieces together.  When you come to sewing the fourth side, sew half of the side.
   1. Turn the work "inside-out" so that you can see the body pattern on the outside.
   1. Stuff the body until desired shape is achieved.
   1. Continue to sew the remaining fourth side shut.
1. Sew each of the arms to the top left and top right of the body.
1. Assemble those feets!
   1. Sew the side foot strip to the bottom foot strip.
   1. Sew the the top foor strip to the side foot strip until there's only 1" left open
   1. Flip "inside-out" and stuff with stuffing until desired shape is achieved.
   1. Sew remaining top foot to the side foot.
   1. Repeat the above steps to create the second foot!
1. Assemble the leggies!
   1. Sew one end of the one of the legs
   1. Stuff the leg with stuffing until desired shape is achieved.
   1. Sew the open end of the leg to a foot that you have just created in the above steps
   1. Repeat the above leg assembly steps for the other leg you need to create.
1. Sew the legs to the body.
1. Love on the Feelsbot that you have just lovingly constructed. Hooray! <3

Commit message:

Edits sides/back of head based on my tests
* Removes CO/BO rows from row counting.
* Renumbers rows accordingly
* Note about garter stitch
* Removes numbering from back of head

feelsbot-knit-pattern.md, after:

# Feelsbot Felted Plushy Pattern
## by Brenna Flood (@brennx0r)
-------------------------------

## Materials Needed
One hank each of the following Cascade 220 colors:

* DRK: dark heathered green
* TEA:   heathered teal
* YEL:   yellow
* PUR: purple

Or Plymouth Yarn Galway Worsted:

* TEA: 131 Aegean Sea
* YEL: 179 Gold

1 set straight or circular knitting needles, US8

1 set double-pointed (dpn) needles, US8

tapestry needle for ends weaving

plush toy stuffing of your choice (4 oz?)

## Head - Front

The front of the head is knitted flat using 3 different colors.

I have used both Fair Isle and Intarsia techniques for this, and
both have their pros/cons. 

If you've never done multi-colored knitting before, these videos
are great references:

Fair Isle: http://www.knittinghelp.com/video/play/fair-isle-color-knitting

Intarsia:  http://www.knittinghelp.com/video/play/intarsia-color-knitting

Pick the method that works the best for you. <3

__row 1:__ CO 16 using DRK

__row 2:__ K1 DRK, K14 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 3:__ P1 DRK, P14 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 4:__ K1 DRK, K14 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 5:__ P1 DRK, P4 PUR, P6 YEL, P4 PUR, P1 DRK   

__row 6:__ K1 DRK, K4 PUR, K6 YEL, K4 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 7:__ P1 DRK, P4 PUR, P6 YEL, P4 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 8:__ K1 DRK, K2 PUR, K2 YEL, K6 PUR, K2 YEL, K2 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 9:__ P1 DRK, P2 PUR, P2 YEL, P6 PUR, P2 YEL, P2 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 10:__ K1 DRK, K2 PUR, K2 YEL, K6 PUR, K2 YEL, K2 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 11:__ P1 DRK, P14 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 12:__ K1 DRK, K14 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 13:__ P1 DRK, P2 PUR, P4 YEL, P2 PUR, P4 YEL, P2 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 14:__ K1 DRK, K2 PUR, K4 YEL, K2 PUR, K4 YEL, K2 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 15:__ P1 DRK, P2 PUR, P4 YEL, P2 PUR, P4 YEL, P2 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 16:__ K1 DRK, K2 PUR, K4 YEL, K2 PUR, K4 YEL, K2 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 17:__ P1 DRK, P2 PUR, P4 YEL, P2 PUR, P4 YEL, P2 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 18:__ K1 DRK, K2 PUR, K4 YEL, K2 PUR, K4 YEL, K2 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 19:__ P1 DRK, P14 PUR, P1 DRK

__row 20:__ K1 DRK, K14 PUR, K1 DRK

__row 21:__ P16 DRK

__row 22:__ cast off!


## Head - Sides (x2)

The sides and back of the head are knit in garter stitch using the heathered teal color only.

We'll need two finished pieces of the below:

CO 12 TEA.

__row 1 - 11:__ K12

__row 12:__ SSK, K8, K2TOG

__row 13:__ K10

__row 14:__ SSK, K6, K2TOG

__row 15:__ K8

__row 16:__ SSK, K4, K2TOG

__row 17:__ K6

__row 18:__ SSK, K2, K2TOG

__row 19:__ K4

Bind off.



## Head - Back

For this, we'll use the heathered teal color (TEA) only.

CO 16

K 30 rows (garter stitch)

Bind off


## Neck

For this, we'll use the heathered dark green color (DRK) only.

We'll need one finished piece of the following:

__row 1:__ Using the dpn needles, CO 9

__rows 2 - 6:__ K in the round

__row 7:__ cast off!


## Arms

For this, we'll use the heathered dark green color (DRK) only.

We'll need two finished pieces of the following:

__row 1:__ Using the dpn needles, CO 9

__rows 2 - 22:__ K in the round

__row 23:__ cast off!


## Hands

For this, we'll use the heathered teal color (TEA) only.

We'll need two finished pieces of the following:

__row 1:__ Using the dpn needles, CO 9

__rows 2 - 13:__ K in the round

__row 14:__ cast off!



## Body - Front

__row 1:__ CO 18 using TEA

__rows 2 - 12:__ Work as stockinette stitch (K for whole row, then P for whole row, etc.)

__row 13:__ K8 TEA, K2 YEL, K8 TEA

__row 14:__ P8 TEA, P2 YEL, P8 TEA

__row 15:__ K8 TEA, K2 YEL, K8 TEA

__row 16:__ K6 TEA, K6 YEL, K6 TEA

__row 17:__ P6 TEA, P6 YEL, P6 TEA

__row 18:__ K6 TEA, K6 YEL, K6 TEA

__row 19:__ K4 TEA, K8 YEL, K4 TEA

__row 20:__ P4 TEA, P8 YEL, P4 TEA

__row 21:__ K4 TEA, K8 YEL, K4 TEA

__row 22:__ P4 TEA, P8 YEL, P4 TEA

__row 23:__ K4 TEA, K8 YEL, K4 TEA

__row 24:__ P4 TEA, P8 YEL, P4 TEA

__row 25:__ K6 TEA, K2 YEL, K2 TEA, K2 YEL, K6 TEA

__row 26:__ P6 TEA, P2 TEA, P2 TEA, P2 YEL, P6 TEA

__row 27:__ K6 TEA, K2 YEL, K2 TEA, K2 YEL, K6 TEA

__row 28:__ P18 TEA

__row 29:__ K18 TEA

__row 30:__ P18 TEA

__row 31:__ K18 TEA

__row 32:__ P18 TEA

__row 33:__ cast off!



## Body - Back

For this, we'll use the heathered teal color only.

We'll need two finished pieces of the following:

__row 1:__ CO 18

__row 2 - 32:__ Work up as stockenette.

__row 33:__ cast off!


## Legs

For this, we'll use the heathered dark green color only.

We'll need two finished pieces of the following:

__row 1:__ Using the dpn needles, CO 9

__rows 2 - 22:__ K in the round

__row 23:__ cast off!

## Feet - Tops and Bottoms

For this, we'll use the heathered teal color only.

We'll need four finished pieces of the following:

__row :__ CO 10

__rows 2 - 16 :__ Work up as stockinette.

__row 17:__ cast off!


## Feet - Sides

For this, we'll use the heathered dark green color only.

We'll need two finished pieces of the following:

__row 1:__ CO 32

__rows 2 - 6:__ Work up as stockinette.

__row 7:__ cast off!




## General Assembly

Once all the pieces have been knit, you'll want to do the following steps. Unless otherwise indicated, please assume all sewing will use the mattress stitch technique. Video instructions on mattress stitching may be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nJ7KEGUTlJM

1. Using a tapestry needle, weave all loose ends into the work.
1. Felt all of the pieces using a washing machine, suds, and HOT water.
1. Assemble the head via whip-stitching:
   1. Sew the "back-side" pieces to the sides of the face of Feelsbot.
   1. Sew the "back-back" piece to the forehead and "back-sides" of the Feelsbot.
   1. Stuff the head with stuffing.
   1. Sew the remaining flap of the "back-back" piece and the feelsbot chin.
1. Sew the neck to the head.
1. Stuff the neck with stuffing - set aside for now.
1. Assemble the hands:
   1. Sew one end of one of the hands.
   1. Stuff the hand with stuffing, then sew the other end of the hand.
   1. Using a tapestry needle, sew through one end of the hand tube created.
   1. Using the hand sewing gathering technique (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o256Ppwf55Q), sew through the center of the tube and pull taut so that the hand curvature is created for the claw.
   1. Repeat the above for the second claw!
 1. Now, onto the arms assembly:
   1. Sew one end of one of the arms.
   1. Stuff the arm with stuffing until desired shape is achieved.
   1. Sew the open end of the arm to a hand that you have just created in the above steps
   1. Repeat the above arm assembly steps for the other arm you need to create.
 1. Next, we'll work on the body:
   1. With the front of the body front piece facing the body back piece, sew three sides of the pieces together.  When you come to sewing the fourth side, sew half of the side.
   1. Turn the work "inside-out" so that you can see the body pattern on the outside.
   1. Stuff the body until desired shape is achieved.
   1. Continue to sew the remaining fourth side shut.
1. Sew each of the arms to the top left and top right of the body.
1. Assemble those feets!
   1. Sew the side foot strip to the bottom foot strip.
   1. Sew the the top foor strip to the side foot strip until there's only 1" left open
   1. Flip "inside-out" and stuff with stuffing until desired shape is achieved.
   1. Sew remaining top foot to the side foot.
   1. Repeat the above steps to create the second foot!
1. Assemble the leggies!
   1. Sew one end of the one of the legs
   1. Stuff the leg with stuffing until desired shape is achieved.
   1. Sew the open end of the leg to a foot that you have just created in the above steps
   1. Repeat the above leg assembly steps for the other leg you need to create.
1. Sew the legs to the body.
1. Love on the Feelsbot that you have just lovingly constructed. Hooray! <3
